[MUSIC PLAYING]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>Major sighting here.
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
On March 13, 1997,
more than 10,000
people witnessed what
became known as
the Phoenix Lights.
>>And no one seems to be
able to explain what it was.
>>REGINA: What Is believed to
be a triangular craft stretching
over 1 mile in size flew
quietly at low elevations
over the city.
>>Six amber orbs in a
row totally equidistant
from each other.
>>REGINA: Inspiring
not only questions,
but awe from the witnesses.
>>Thousands of people saw more
than stars in the night sky.
>>REGINA: One such witness
was Dr. Lynne Kitei,
who went on to spend
seven years of her life
researching this event.
>>LYNNE KITEI: The
data speaks for itself.
Plus I have photographs
that cannot be explained.
>>REGINA: Which became
perhaps the most
researched sighting in history.
And Dr. Lynne joins us today.
And it's been a lot more
than seven years, hasn't it
since then?
Now, what we're in 15
years into this experience?
>>KITEI: Actually, 15 years,
over 15 years-- March 13,
1997-- since the
Arizona mass sighting,
which has become
historic in the annals,
not only of ufology, but
also of human history.
This has been going
on for many centuries,
as I found out after the mass
sighting, when I really pushed
my entire medical career
aside to find a logical source
and meaning for what I had
witnessed and photographed,
actually, up close and
personal two years prior.
>>REGINA: Yes, and I
want to get into that.
But let's talk about your
life a little bit prior.
You were normal, right?
You were a normal person.
Well, not exactly normal,
but you and your husband,
you're both MDs, you're
living in a beautiful house
in Phoenix, and enjoying
your life, as people do,
when things began inserting
themselves into your awareness
that you would've never guessed.
Maybe I will ask
you this, would you
have intentionally called
this into your life now
looking back 15 years?
>>KITEI: That's an
interesting question, Regina,
because both of us had
no interest or knowledge
in this topic at all until we
had a very close sighting two
years prior to
the mass sighting.
What's ironic is that
I've dedicated my life's
work to community education
of the reality of vital health
issues, such as AIDS, teen
pregnancy, substance abuse
for the community.
I have a company that
produces video and workbook
curriculums worldwide.
And when this fell
in my lap, I have
to say that I felt obliged
to the same for this topic
without any knowledge
of it at all.
Once I saw something up close
and personal, photographed it,
didn't even know who to
ask to look at the data
until two years later, when
these phenomena started
appearing again at a distance.
And I felt compelled,
whether it was
a scientist or the experiencer
to actually document them
on film again up into and
including on March 13, 1997,
when thousands of people
statewide and beyond our state
actually had an experience
similar of these phenomena.
>>REGINA: But let's talk
about the things that
happened prior to that, the
sightings prior, because, as I
look at it, it appears
you were being conditioned
for something.
I mean, most people
spend their entire lives
and never see these things.
Many, many people spend
hour after hour looking out
into the evening sky, hoping
to see something, and never
see anything.
And yet, these things
were coming, in essence,
to you to be seen for purpose.
I mean, I'm saying that.
I know you aren't.
I'm saying I think that
it was for purpose.
Obviously, you were
someone who was
going to pick it up and run
with it once you were confronted
with something major.
So let's talk about the very
first events, what those were,
what it looked like, and
how it appeared to you.
>>KITEI: Well, each of us comes
from a different background,
a different upbringing, a
different belief system.
Some people can't deal
with it, some people
don't want to deal with it.
For myself, I've
always been open.
I actually had an
earlier experience
as a child, which
is very interesting,
because a number of witnesses
to the Phoenix Lights
also had similar experiences--
>>REGINA: Will you
tell us about the--
>>KITEI: --near-death
experience--
>>REGINA: OK.
>>KITEI: --which
we can get into,
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KITEI: Which,
actually, set, I think,
the foundation of being
open to the possibility.
Although I come to this
forum as a healthy skeptic.
One must be open as a
physician to anything
walking through the door.
But what happened
to us in 1995, we
lived mountainside in Paradise
Valley, Arizona, pretty high
on the mountain.
And one wall of our
bedroom is a window.
And we have a panoramic
view of the city skyline.
So we know what helicopters
and street lights,
and plain lights, and--
>>REGINA: Sky Harbor Airport--
>>KITEI: Sky Harbor
Airport activity looks like
>>KITEI: --planes
coming in and out.
So when this happened,
actually, my husband
saw it first and
called me out of a bath
to see what was
a little below us
over a private gated community.
We're kind of nestled
in the mountains,
so there's no way it
could have been military.
And here we see three amber
orbs in a triangle formation--
one on top and two
closely aligned
underneath-- about 50-75
feet off the ground, very
treacherous ground.
So I immediately
looked underneath,
it was no one there.
And wondered what
is this phenomenon?
It was just so
extraordinary, but I
didn't want to move to
grab my camera at the time,
because I didn't know
how long it would last.
So I tried to take everything
in mentally-- the size,
the shape, the color.
They were about
3 to 6 feet each.
They were oval-shaped,
like an egg on its side.
And there were three distinct
objects in a pyramid formation.
And the color within each
orb-- and I call them an orb,
because light did not
extend outside the edge-- it
was self-contained, which
you'll hear over and over again
from witnesses worldwide.
And I thought to myself, if I
don't get a picture of this,
because it was mesmerizing,
no one's going to believe it.
And I ran to the closet
to grab my 35-millimiter,
which I keep handy to capture
beautiful sunsets in Arizona.
And as I'm doing so, my
husband calls me back.
He says, get over here quick.
One of them is disappearing.
And as we watched in awe,
the top orb, without budging,
started to dim, as if
on a dimmer switch.
It's really difficult
to describe.
It was as if it was dimming
and imploding slowly
inward till it was a small
dot, and then it was gone.
But it felt like
it was still there.
That was so unusual,
which I didn't
realize until afterwards.
It really felt like
it was still there.
And I jumped out on the
balcony, got a quick picture
of the two lower orbs,
and immediately noticed
an eerie silence as
if time had stopped.
It was just bizarre.
And as intently as I'm
watching these two lower orbs,
I have to admit that it felt
like something was watching me.
And going through my head,
I was thinking who are you,
what are you, do know that I'm
here, I'd love to meet you.
And I didn't share
that with a soul
until after the mass
sighting two years later,
but that's what I was thinking.
And next thing I remember,
the left bottom orb started
to dissipate, just like
the first, the top one had.
And I quickly shot
a picture of that.
What was amazing is
that not only don't I
remember much after
that, but that
was the only picture that
turned out at the time.
But for me, it was confirmation
that something unusual
did happen.
It was very close.
And I happened to catch
one of the orbs half
disappeared and one still there.
But I didn't even know
who to show it to.
I knew no one who was
interested in this
and just wondered
for two years what
this advanced
technology that seemed
to have an
intelligence behind it
was doing outside
our bedroom window.
And it wasn't until two months
before the mass sighting--
and this is really
important data
that, unless you read my
book or know my story,
you're not familiar
with, because two months
before the mass sighting,
the same phenomena
appeared at a distance.
And what's interesting, when we
went back and actually analyzed
the '95 photos,
they're in the photo
as well in the same
exact location.
And here were this line
of orbs that, again, I
felt compelled to
document on film,
the second night of
which, I actually
caught this phenomena head
on turning into a V-shape.
And it was so unnerving that I
called around the next morning,
because it was so massive.
And not having an
explanation for '95,
I thought, what is this?
This is so unusual, out
of our realm of reality.
And found air
traffic controllers
at Sky Harbor
International Airport
who saw the same thing
at the same time.
In fact, it showed up on--
didn't show up on radar--
but it showed up in class
B restricted airspace,
which is really
important to note--
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>KITEI: --which alarmed
them, because anyone
within a 30-mile radius from
the center of the airport
must call in to the tower to
report that they're coming
into that area, especially if
they're 1,000 feet altitude,
which these phenomena were.
So they grabbed their
binoculars to look.
And what they saw
in their own words
were six points
of light, totally
equidistant from each other--
massive span over a mile
wide-- that seemed to be
attached to something.
But they couldn't quite see
what it was attached to--
and you would hear that again
during the mass sighting--
actually, turning
against the wind.
And one of them was
a meteorologist,
so he knew what he
was talking about,
and then slowly moving as a
unit behind South Mountain.
So I said, so what was it?
And there was silence.
And then one of the air traffic
controllers says, beats me.
I said, you're air
traffic controllers.
You're supposed to know
what's in our air space.
They had no clue.
And I continued
photographing these things up
onto and including March 13.
For me it was another night,
but the same phenomena
popped up in the same
location that night.
I was confirmed again by
the air traffic controllers
as appearing about 1,000
feet altitude in class B
restricted airspace on March
13, which I captured on video.
I had no idea that thousands of
people for many, many hours--
that's the other
thing, Regina, there
is so much mis- and
disinformation out there.
This took place for
many, many hours.
We have reports--
>>REGINA: Now, are we talking
about the night of the event?
>>KITEI: Of March 13--
>>REGINA: OK.
>>KITEI: --the night
of the mass sighting,
which actually began at
3:00 in the afternoon.
>>REGINA: Well,
let's talk about it.
Let's talk about the
trajectory of it as well.
>>KITEI: OK, we have reports
coming in from Nevada.
We have reports in Arizona,
daylight sightings at 3:00 PM.
We have a sighting in New Mexico
by Native Americans at 5:30
in the afternoon, as well
as 7 o'clock, about 7:15
in California.
At 11:30 there was actually
a commercial airline crew
and 140 passengers who
were passing from Phoenix
to California who saw the
same phenomena hovering
over Las Vegas.
And that's an interesting
story in and of itself.
And then at 3 AM the
following morning,
there was a call to the
National UFO Reporting Center
in Seattle, Washington, Peter
Davenport, the director,
received a call from
the ledge crewmen
from Luke Air Force
Base, very detailed.
In fact, we have the recorded
message in the documentary--
--that shares that not only
was one of the objects--
because it wasn't just
one or two events, which
you hear in the media--
there were many events,
as I said, for many, many hours.
>>REGINA: Did they happen
simultaneously that evening?
>>KITEI: Yes, yes
in different places.
>>REGINA: Were they very
similar in formation
to the craft that was
seen over Phoenix?
>>KITEI: Actually, they
were orb formations
in mile-wide V-arrays.
There were also numerous craft.
And if you look on the
phoenixlights.net website
on the GAP page, Geospacial
Animation Project,
you'll see a 12-year compilation
of hundreds of reports
to the National UFO
Reporting Center
in Seattle to then councilwoman
vice mayor Francis Barr, which
she received over 1,000 reports,
as well as Village Labs, which
was the clearinghouse locally,
and Arizona MUFON was compiled
by investigators to show
that there were eight or nine
different craft that
people were describing,
which is pretty amazing, because
they look very different.
Now, whether it
was one craft that
could morph into
looking differently
or it was a series, a parade,
going through the entire state
and beyond, which
the investigators do
believe, because,
as you mentioned,
there were things
happening simultaneously,
or the perspective of where
the person was standing,
we may never know.
But the fact is there
was one of these crafts--
and this is what this crewman
reported from Luke Air Force
Base, hovering right over
the center of Phoenix about
8:20-8:30 that evening.
7th Avenue and Indian School,
military jets were sent out
to intercept it,
get gun camera film.
And as they got closer,
what was really interesting,
not only did their
instrumentation
inside their cockpit go haywire,
which you will hear worldwide
with similar cases, but
as they got even closer,
the phenomena just blinked
out and freaked out
one of the pilots,
which his crewman said
he helped out of
his own aircraft.
Now, that's really interesting--
>>REGINA: Yes, because
he was so shaken.
>>KITEI: So shaken up by it.
And then I have a report
at 5:30 the next morning,
the following day, on the 14th,
from a crew, a Boeing crew,
who was coming in to work
at Sky Harbor International
Airport, who saw the same thing
hovering over their tarmac.
So this was going on
for many, many hours
and many, many events.
So it's quite fascinating.
>>REGINA: Which is really
what differentiates it
from most other sightings.
I mean, there have been massive
sightings throughout history,
and the famous one's
in Mexico City.
Even in Washington, DC.
>>KITEI: Absolutely, in 1952.
>>REGINA: '52.
>>KITEI: But we can
find them from the time
human documentation started.
>>REGINA: You can find them
wherever there was art work,
wherever there's cave art--
>>KITEI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --it's been captured,
but what was so interesting
here is that it seemed
to be so incredibly
purposeful to show up and
move so slowly to say,
hey, look up, whatever we are,
whoever they are, we're here.
>>KITEI: Well, not only that,
there was miraculous, I mean,
really miraculous
technology going on here.
We're talking quite
advanced aerial phenomena,
because not only was
this very low-gliding--
and some people said it was
so close and so roof-top level
that they could have thrown
a stone at it, that low.
Not only that, but
some people saw
it take off at a tremendous
speed from just hovering.
Other people saw the orbs
detach from the main object,
go out into the
environment, and then redock
with it, which is interesting,
because if you go back
to our '95 sighting--
and as I mentioned,
the same phenomena is
in the same location
in the background, while we
were taking the close pictures.
Perhaps that's what
happened in '95.
What's also interesting
about that, which I do not
believe in coincidence
any longer,
there are so many serendipities
that occurred, particularly
after the mass
sighting, that I really
had to take note of the fact
that the puzzle pieces just
kept fitting together.
And what was interesting,
about six months
before the mass
sighting, I was invited
to present my substance
abuse prevention education
program to the Gila Bend
Indian Reservation, which
is located in the basin between
South Mountain and the Estrella
Mountain Range, which we
have a view of from our home.
And also these phenomena
keep popping up in that area.
If you note, I always say,
that data speaks for itself,
if you just look at it.
And what I found really
interesting when I did
note that, I called them
back after the mass sighting.
And this was six months
before the mass sighting
that we happened to
have this presentation.
>>REGINA: In that area.
>>KITEI: And after the mass
sighting, I called them up
and I said, did anyone happen to
see strange lights on March 13,
these phenomena
from my photographs,
35-millimeter photographs, keep
showing that these orbs pop up
right in that
general area, where
South Mountain and the
Estrellas intersect.
And they started to giggle.
And I said, is that funny?
And they said, are you kidding?
We've been looking up
at them for centuries.
They call them Sky
People, light beings.
I had no idea.
This really opened up
a whole new world to me
that I came to learn that
indigenous cultures worldwide
from the beginning of
human documentation
had been seeing these
phenomena and been
noting these phenomena.
In fact, they called
the Estrella Mountains,
it got its name from
the Spaniards, who
visited and learn
the stories, all
of these cultures in the area.
It means "star" in Spanish.
And they actually
believe that there
is a gateway to the stars,
a portal in that area.
And again, if you look at my
data, it's just speculation,
but you have to
wonder if that's true.
>>REGINA: Well, and
again, because we're
talking about cultures
all over the planet
and we're talking
throughout history,
it would be
ridiculous for us not
to assume that they were
seeing and understood,
and their lore contains
something real.
It's beyond coincidence
that the star people
are at the base of all of
these indigenous cultures.
Essentially, all of them.
>>KITEI: You're right.
Most things can be explained.
We have to say that.
Only a small percentage cannot.
But just because we don't
have the technology yet
to definitively define
what these things are,
it doesn't mean
they're not real.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KITEI: It took 17
centuries, 17 centuries,
before the advent of the
microscope for humans
to really realize that there
are zillions of microbes
all around us, even in our
bodies, some are beneficial,
some are pathogens.
We've learned to live with
them and to deal with them.
Just as we know we cannot see
radio waves or gamma rays,
or even electromagnetic energies
that are around every living
cell.
But just because
we can't see them,
it doesn't mean
they're not real.
We may just be looking on the
AM dial for an FM frequency.
>>REGINA: Very true.
On the other hand, there's
a whole other issue,
which we're going to get into.
And that is a
concerted effort to see
that we don't put any
credibility into the subject.
And through
disinformation campaigns
that have occurred for now we're
going on a couple generations,
certainly just in the
Western world alone,
to discredit the
experience of being
a witness to any
kind of UFO event.
But before we go
there, let's go back
this consciousness part of it.
As you said, when you
first saw the orbs,
you felt as though something
intelligent was looking at you.
Now, let's talk about
not just your feeling,
but the feeling of
some of the witnesses,
many, many, many
of the witnesses.
What were some common
themes about the experience
of being out
underneath this craft.
>>KITEI: That is a
wonderful question,
because what's
really interesting,
and that, of course,
perked my interest
in this whole phenomena,
was that not only were there
others.
And as you mentioned,
this has been
happening since human
documentation began.
We have the drawings in
primitive caves of long extinct
animals, and in the sky,
we have these phenomena.
We have pictures in the
15th and 16th centuries
of frescoes, where people
are on the ground looking up
at these phenomena.
>>REGINA: I love all of this
ancient art that contain
craft--
>>KITEI: Right, exactly.
>>REGINA: --that shouldn't
theoretically be there.
>>KITEI: And affected
people at a very deep level.
And not only that, but Foo
Fighters, even during World War
II, they called them Foo
Fighters, these orbs,
identical.
In fact, I conferred
with Dr. Richard Haines,
who has studied thousands
of pilot sightings
and the World War II
orbs, which are called
Foo Fighters around each craft.
Everybody saw it, somebody had
this advanced spy technology.
It wasn't till after the
war that Japan and Germany
and the United States tried
to study these phenomena.
No one knew where
they came from.
So they've been around
a long, long time.
And certainly, we've
had similar sightings,
not only in the '50s-- the
Lubbock Lights and 60's, 70's.
>>REGINA: 1917, the
Fatima sightings.
>>KITEI: Exactly.
And our orbs have been
equated with them.
And you mentioned,
over the capital,
there were quite a few
aerial phenomenon in 1952.
And the '80s and '90s, and UK,
and Belgium, of these triangle
craft, as well as in 2008
in Stevenville, Texas.
And there's so many
sightings worldwide,
they just cannot be
ignored any longer.
Or dismissed because
they're an anomalous.
Nobody can truly
explain what they are.
And what's really interesting,
that I do have to mention here,
and we'll get back to
the consciousness part
because that's really
important in all this,
is that there was no
investigation or explanation
for months.
Nobody would talk about it in
the government or military.
It was uncanny.
Because here something had
traversed, mile to two miles
wide in some very credible
reports, over people's heads.
I mean, people were
actually looking up
at these canister things.
>>REGINA: It was less
than 3,000 feet up.
>>KITEI: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: They able to determine
less than 3,000 feet up.
>>KITEI: And like
I said, some said
it was rooftop, where
they could look right
up into these enormous
canisters of swimming gasses.
I mean, it's just uncanny that
nothing was said, afterward,
from the military or
government until-- and this
is really important-- about a
few months later, on, actually,
June 18, 1997, a front page
"USA Today" article opened
the sighting up to
international scrutiny.
We were deluged by media
from all over the world.
As I said, the puzzle pieces.
The very next day, on June 19th,
suddenly our former governor,
Fife Symington, announced
that they found the culprit
to the mass sighting.
Well, what was disconcerting
is that everyone took it
seriously.
And what he did was
brought out his assistant
in a massive alien
head and made a mockery
of the sighting, which
really concerned,
particularly parents,
who were with children.
And by the way, children
were usually the first ones
to notice this massive
V formation of lights
coming towards them.
And I have to say, it really
put a lid on it for a while.
But the witnesses themselves
were certainly not convinced.
And it was actually offensive
to many, many people.
>>REGINA: It was very offensive.
And it was silly.
It was sophomoric.
>>KITEI: And for whatever
reason, and certainly
we know that they want to
defuse the whole thing,
and to make a joke out of it.
Which, as you mentioned,
is the usual case.
And one of the main
reasons I came forward,
not only to share the
data so hopefully people
will look at it, because
it does speak for itself.
It's so compelling.
But also the fact
that it's enough.
It's time we get this out
in the open and address it.
Accept it.
And study it.
So, not only could we find out
who's driving these things,
but move forward in
our own evolution.
And that's when we get back to
the consciousness part of it,
which is really
important to me because,
as I was interviewing
witnesses, what really touched
me very deeply is that, not
only were their lives changed.
I mean, whoever's doing this
is not only waking us up
to their presence in a very
gentle, non-threatening way.
And I do have to say here
that, in over 15 years,
there's not been one-- not on
one report-- of harm, threat,
or abduction associated
with the Phoenix Lights.
And that's very telling,
in and of itself.
But also, what's
really amazing--
and I'll get back
to the witnesses--
is that after-- about a
month after the "USA Today"
article came out, I got a call.
And I really checked around.
I tried to do my homework.
Not only did I take
my 35 millimeter data
at extreme studies at University
of Arizona Optical Science
Department, Conscious Study
Department, Arizona State
University Geology, Mathematics,
Anthropology Departments,
as well as the renowned Brooks
Institute of Photography.
And no one could tell me
what these things were.
But the other thing
was that I really
tried to do my homework
with the military, as well.
And they were more
interested in seeing
what I had than giving
an explanation for it.
I finally got a call a month
after the "USA Today" article
on July 24th from
one of the head of PR
at the Air National Guard
saying, oh, Doctor Lynn,
I think we know what those
lights were, back in March.
And I was thrilled
because I was looking.
And I've been looking ever
since for a logical source
of meaning.
And I said, so what were they?
And she said, do you believe in
five months, no one ever looked
at the log for visiting
the Air National Guard?
And the Maryland
Air National Guard
was in town sending off
flares and operation--
>>REGINA: Suggests
the flare story--
>>KITEI: --which I came to learn
meant Diversionary Tactical
Maneuvers.
Diversionary Military
Tactical Maneuvers.
So, there may have been some
flares, though again, we
have not had one
person describe flares.
But I said, well, wait a minute.
When were they in town?
And she said, March
1 to the 15th.
And I said, were they
in town in January?
She said, oh, no.
I said, are you sure?
She said, absolutely.
I said, well.
I have 35 millimeter
photographic evidence
of the exact same phenomenon,
in the exact same location,
confirmed both times two months
before the mass sighting--
and the morning after
the mass sighting--
as appearing in Class
B Restricted Airspace.
And she said, you
never told me that.
And then I said, besides that,
you're trying to say that
flares, particularly military
illumination flares that
are dropped with parachutes,
they have huge smoke trails
that illuminate the flare
itself, and the smoke trails--
>>REGINA: And not highly
predictable in their movement.
>>KITEI: Exactly.
They haphazardly fall to
the ground in minutes.
There's no way.
I said, you're trying
to say that they
kept a rock solid,
mile wide equidistant V
formation for hours
throughout the entire state.
And she said, uh, I
have a call coming in.
I'll get back to you.
Well, I'm still waiting.
And it's over 15 years later.
>>REGINA: Yeah, right.
That call'll never happen.
But the thing is, that story is
what most people are left with.
>KITEI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Honestly.
If you ask people today
about the Phoenix Lights,
if they don't know your
work, it was flares.
>>KITEI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And that
ridiculous story
made it around the
United States, certainly.
I don't know if it made it
into papers around the world
as the flare explanation.
But that's what
people are left with.
Because by that time,
once it has been quote
"successfully discredited,"
then people tune out.
>>KITEI: Well, that's a
very good point because once
that came forward-- and the next
morning, it was headline news.
Headline news.
Which was very
disconcerting for anyone
that really saw the
true phenomenon.
And yet, OK.
I was open to it.
As were others.
And councilwoman Frances
Barwood, actually.
>>REGINA: We're going to
get to that in a minute.
>>KITEI: Three years later,
she ran for Secretary of State
on a platform to get answers
for the mass sighting.
And one of the points
that she really pushed
was for a reenactment.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KITEI: And finally,
and most people
have no clue that this happened.
If you weren't there
locally or read my book,
you have no idea
that this happened.
And this one event alone
really is very telling
because three Air National
Guards announced on March 7,
2000, that they were
going to deploy flares,
Military Illumination
flares to show everyone
the Phoenix Lights.
Now, I don't know if they
thought people forgot, or would
confuse the issue, which
certainly, everything that they
were doing was
confusing the issue.
But we were ready.
With cameras on the ready.
And, I have to say, when
you look at that footage.
Again, it speaks for itself.
It was a joke.
Not only--
>>REGINA: It was insulting.
>>KITEI: Not only did
they try to make a triangle,
but it was upside down.
It fell apart immediately.
It had huge smoke trails.
It confirmed for the
witnesses themselves
that the Phoenix Lights
were definitely not flares.
>>REGINA: Right.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-These lights up here
represent aircraft flares.
If you notice, they are
not in any straight line.
They vary in distance
between each other.
And if you look at the
top, you can see the smoke.
As a flare falls, it leaves
a trail of smoke above it
from the burning
magnesium in the flare.
-Flares are moving
relative to each other.
They're moving at
different speeds.
The Phoenix Lights
are rock steady.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>KITEI: And to this
day, they have never
been reenacted or explained.
>>REGINA: So now I'd like to
get back again the feelings
of the witnesses while
this was happening.
And then some of the
calls that came in.
The chronology of events.
Because you called the next
morning, Luke Air Force Base,
right?
Was it the next morning
you called them?
>>KITEI: Well,
actually, what happened
was the people-- as
it was happening--
and we have a 911
police operator that
was on duty that night,
that just retired last year.
She is now in the documentary
to share the fact,
even though the police said
they got very few calls,
that they got hundreds
and hundreds of calls.
And it was very consistent.
I mean, you could tell as one of
these objects was moving down,
exactly what was happening.
And the descriptions were,
not only so heartfelt,
but also they were detailed.
And consistent.
And what was really
interesting, and certainly we
didn't know this until
after, people were in awe.
No one was afraid.
That is so important
to impart now,
is that people were just
in awe and in wonder.
And actually felt
blessed at that moment
that they were
seeing these things.
I mean, that alone
is very unusual.
Now flares, and blimps, and
so forth, don't do that.
>>REGINA: Are not going
to create a sense of awe.
>>KITEI: Exactly.
They don't do that.
And long term,
which I also am very
interested in professionally,
as a physician, what I found
were a number of witnesses
who shared with me that they
had had near death
experiences as children that
was reawakened by
the mass sighting.
And I felt that really
profoundly personally
because I did, too.
>>REGINA: And what
does that mean?
>>KITEI: Well--
>>REGINA: To have it reawakened?
What does that mean?
>>KITEI: OK.
For myself, personally, now this
was when I was eight years old.
We're talking over 40 years.
I had long buried
that experience.
I knew that it was
real to me at the time.
But hadn't really thought
about it until right
before the Phoenix
Lights reappeared.
I actually had an experience,
again another coincidence,
that just hit me
really hard that, whoa.
Maybe there was a connection
between my near death
experience and what
I experienced up
close and personal-- in '95.
And then when I started hearing
from the other witnesses
that their near death
experiences were reawakened
as well, I thought, jeez.
Could there possibly
be a connection
between all
unexplained phenomena--
whether it's near
death experience, out
of body experience, or
unexplained aerial phenomena--
that has a mystical light
associated with the experience?
And when I started
looking again,
I started finding so
much credible data
at university level.
There is a study that
was done years ago,
decades ago actually, at the
University of Connecticut,
called The Omega Project,
by Doctor Kenneth Ring,
if anybody wants
to check that out.
A very thick book.
Very hard to get through for
the lay person, I'm sure.
But establishes,
as other experts
in the field--
Doctor Raymond Fowler
as well as others in the
near death experience realm--
that there is a connection.
Not only in the experience
itself-- and we're
talking from
feeling out of body,
to a presence of
another intelligence,
to seeing a white light
or some sort of a light,
to others which I really
make quite easy to learn
in the book-- but
the aftereffect.
That was what was
so compelling to me.
An awakening, an
enlightenment that
touches that person,
that experiencer that
does experience it-- again,
it's a choice-- to the core,
a reawakening of a connection
to the universe, to the Earth,
and to each other
that, in most cases,
was never realized before.
>>REGINA: And a lot of
your witnesses on tape,
in the documentary,
speak about this feeling.
And a couple of
them speak about it
having changed
their entire lives.
>>KITEI: Absolutely.
Forever.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So we're talking
about something that
has to be, I mean, for lack
of-- it's kind of a bucket word,
almost a spiritual experience
for whatever the word
spiritual means.
Something beyond the physical,
so metaphysical, experience
has occurred.
Which has to be--
everything's energy,
so there has to be an
energetic component to it.
>>KITEI: There
seems to be actually
a vibration that
touches the person.
They're suddenly at
a different frequency
than they'd ever been before.
If they're open to it.
And that's the first step, is
to be open to these things.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KITEI: And when you really
look back, and you not only
observe and learn--
and I'm actually
studying that at university
level now-- the aftereffect.
The profound and
positive aftereffect.
I've started calling all
unexplained phenomenon
U-P. An UP.
Because it is so positive.
Whoever is doing
this, and I've never
said what these things
are, only that they are,
whether they're spirit
world, or time travelers,
or inter dimensional,
interstellar, or all
of the above.
It doesn't matter.
Whoever is doing
this is not only
waking us up to their
presence in a very gentle,
nonthreatening way,
one person at a time.
But they're also
waking each person up
to the spiritual beings we
are, to the positive potential
we have.
>>REGINA: And even the ability
to connect beyond to ourselves
and each other, but cosmically.
>>KITEI: Absolutely.
Again, the connection
to the universe.
>>REGINA: It's like
these frequencies are
opening up and allowing for
maybe a lifting, a refining,
of our frequencies, so that we
have access to these things.
>>KITEI: And so it seems.
And those that are
open to it seem
to realize, and be awake, to not
only to the serendipities that
come into our lives, but also to
the fact that we're not alone.
>>REGINA: We're not alone.
And not only that, we just need
to say this for the record,
these things don't happen when
military craft fly overhead.
>>KITEI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So let's just put
the military craft, the flares,
the balloons, and all these
other ridiculous stories,
let's just put them to bed.
Because the fact is, that's not
the experience of the people.
>>KITEI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And we can't
discount that feeling,
and it is inexplicable
feelings and experiences
that they're having.
>>KITEI: And also,
they want to know more.
Just like myself.
I mean, once you have an
unexplained phenomenon,
UP experience, it changes
your world view forever.
And you want to know
what the answers are.
>>REGINA: And even
though this event
did not have any of the
negative associations
that some experience or events
have, such as abductions,
the work of Doctor
John Mack, for example.
He's delved into that.
>>KITEI: Well, that-- very
interesting you should bring up
his name.
My very first
presentation, and I
hesitated to do it because he
was so involved with the peer
institute at Harvard University,
dealing with the abduction
phenomena, which I
don't even go there.
It's just out of my expertise.
But what I found
interesting is I presented--
my very first presentation was
at University of Arizona Tucson
Medical Center with
Doctor John Mack.
And I presented first.
And he was thrilled because
my data, my hard evidence,
actually confirmed that
whatever was happening was real.
And he was doing studies.
That's what was so interesting.
>>REGINA: That's what
I was about to say
is even in the
books that he wrote,
as a result of his research
there-- and they tried to strip
him of his tenure,
run him out of town.
Harvard was not kind
to him because he
chose to take on this research.
But nonetheless, he persevered.
And a lot of what was said
by the various experiencers
was, even though they were
frightened and did not
want to be taken into this
experience that was not
of their choosing,
that often, again,
there was this awakening.
Opening.
The sense of awe.
The sense of connection.
An emotional,
intelligent, connection,
even with the ones who were
doing whatever they were doing.
Working, experimenting
with them.
Whatever they were
doing with them.
But again, it had
the same thing.
Now, on one hand, you
think, is this some kind
of psychotronic technology
that is zapping people
into a state of
complacency, or whatnot?
But again, you'd have
to say no simply because
of the refinement of
the emotions around it.
These are very elevated
feelings that people are having.
Not that that can't
be accomplished
with certain kinds
of technologies.
But you would say, no.
>>KITEI: Well, you hit on a
very, very important point.
After the lecture, we had a
very heartfelt conversation.
And Doctor Mack
shared with me that he
was working on a
book at the time
to show that, as you mentioned,
even though for
the person who had
that experience-- and Doctor
Ruth Hover, who has-- a Ph.D.
Psychologist who was
in the documentary,
she had-- and she passed
recently-- groups for decades,
concerning contact an abduction.
And the important point
is that, number one,
and I say this quite fervently.
It's so important to share
whatever your experience is.
It's very cathartic and healing.
That was one of the reasons I
came forward as a physician.
Because, if you let it
fester, and so many people
have been afraid to talk
about this, it does fester.
And it's not healthy.
And to share the experience.
And that was one
thing Doctor Mack also
shared with me is that
it's so important to, even
if it's one other person.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KITEI: Email me.
I am very welcome
to all experiences.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KITEI: Even though
most can be explained.
But it's important to share.
Number one.
And number two,
when you do share,
and if you do seek some
guidance and help in a group,
or from a professional, you
come full circle, to you,
at the time.
Doctor Ruth Hover mentions,
when somebody tells you
their experience, it
tells more about them
than it does about
the experience.
If they are a
frightened type person,
they are really
going to be scared.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KITEI: If they are
an angry type person,
they're going to say, how
dare they do this to me.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KITEI: But if you're open,
as I was, to the experience,
it's a positive one.
>>REGINA: That appears
to be the truth, yes.
>>KITEI: And even if
it wasn't at the time,
just talking about
it, and ruminating,
and learning, and putting
it in a proper perspective,
it comes full circle.
And Doctor Mack was
talking about not only
that positive aftereffect
that is finally reached
with therapy, and
group, and so forth.
But also the
spiritual component.
And that's really important.
>>REGINA: Usually there's
quite an expansion
of awareness and consciousness
in these individuals.
>>KITEI: Absolutely.
And the more we learn
about it, and you
don't have to have the
experience by the way, Regina,
to have that positive
transformation.
If you open your heart and
your mind, and learn about it,
you can also have this
positive transformation.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And so now, now that you've
explained that so beautifully,
I want to go back to-- and I've
used the word twice already
and I'll say it again-- the
extreme insult of taking
these people, all these people's
experiences, and saying,
you're silly.
It didn't happen.
It was a figment of
your imagination.
It was flares.
And essentially shaking
one's faith in one's
own experience in life.
And this is done every day.
It's done by the news media.
It's done through the
public education system.
It's done in every way,
disconnecting people from what
they feel is the truth, to
what the standardized version
of "the truth" is
supposed to be.
Which of course, I think it's
damaged our psyche tremendously
as a species.
Now, let's talk about Frances
Barwood, city councilwoman
at the time.
Lots of inquiries began
flowing into her office.
What was this that we saw?
Can you give any kind
of official explanation
as our city elders?
>>KITEI: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And
Frances took it on.
She was open-minded
and took it on.
And maybe this would be a really
good time, let's take a listen.
If you don't mind, we
lifted that part off
of your DVD to show
what her experience was
in trying to respond to
these genuine requests
of the experiencers.
Let's take a look at that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-As I was going
into the meeting,
I was stopped by
a reporter and she
had with her a TV cameraman
and a microphone man.
And they started asking
me about these lights that
went over Phoenix.
And I thought something
had just happened
and I said, when
did this happen?
And she said well, it
was actually March 13th.
And she said we
asked the city what
it was, if they could
find out, and the answer
from the mayor's office was, we
don't have UFOs over Phoenix.
And I thought that was
a pretty strange thing
being that nobody had
said it was a UFO.
They just wanted to
find out what it was.
So I went into the
meeting and came my turn,
and I said there
was a report outside
and had asked some questions
about these lights that
went over Phoenix
last March 13th,
and could we find
out what it was?
-And she thought it was a
fair question was asked of her
and she wanted to know herself,
and she asked the question
in chambers and got quite
an interesting reaction.
-Everybody just kind of
turned around and looked at me
like why did you ask that?
And it was like this
silence, and I-- and I
felt kind of uneasy.
And then somebody-- one
of the other council
members, made some kind of
a joke and they went on.
They didn't assign
me two staff members.
They didn't say who was
going to look into it.
going to get back to me.
And I thought that
was really unusual.
After the meeting was over, one
of the assistant city managers
came up to me and
said, you shouldn't
have asked that question.
And this is the first
I heard about it.
I mean, nothing else was ever
discussed with me at any point.
And I said, why?
And he said, well,
because it's something
that they don't
want to deal with.
And I said, what do you mean?
And he said, well,
the mayor's office
didn't want to have to make
any kind of a statement.
They already issued
a statement and just
didn't want to
have to go into it.
And I thought this
was so unusual.
Something flies
over our airspace,
flies over our
airport's air space,
is seen by pilots
and flight crew
and tower crew and
everything, and they
are afraid for me to
bring up this question.
You know, when this
all started, the reason
that I asked the question
about this incident that
happened on March
13, 1997, which
has come to be known
as the Phoenix Lights,
was because I thought this
is a public safety issue
and we need to know whatever
it was in case it comes back,
in case it happens
again, or in case there's
a danger to the people
or buildings or whatever
because we have
antennas that are high.
And I couldn't understand
the negative reaction
that I got for asking this
when I thought it was,
to me, a perfectly
innocent question.
-Well, as she was pilloried
in the press and made fun of,
the positive effect, however,
was that hundreds of people
came out of the woodwork
and made phone calls
to her office and her home.
-My answering machine at
work totally filled up.
Since they couldn't get any
more calls into my office,
they started calling
other council
members' office leaving
messages for me.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>REGINA: So what's
fascinating about that
is she went on to say
something, and I'm picking it up
because we can't run your
whole documentary right now,
I encourage people
to buy it though.
She went on to call
back I think 700
of the people that called her.
She was so diligent
in her desire
to sort this out she personally
called all of these people
back.
And what startled
her was she kept
getting the same story,
the consistency of how
the event appeared, how it felt,
how people felt while it was
happening, all of this was
very consistent among these 700
people that she returned
the phone calls to.
So again, you know,
she-- and look
at the way she was treated as
a result of her participation.
>>KITEI: Absolutely.
She's the only official,
government official,
who came forward to even
inquire and she didn't see it.
It was just because
so many constituents
had contacted her--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KITEI: -that in good
faith she was doing her job.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KITEI: She mentioned, as
was seen in a council meeting,
and just plastered to the wall.
I stayed anonymous for
seven years, by the way.
>>REGINA: I know you did.
>>KITEI: And I was
very happy that I did.
>>REGINA: Because you
wanted to make sure
that you had all
the facts straight
before you came
forward, didn't want
to ruin your own reputation,
which I totally understand.
And this woman took
it on like you did.
She really took it on.
>>KITEI: She did.
>>REGINA: Interesting
two women take it on,
and Symington meanwhile.
Now let's finish up that
little story of Symington.
So not only did they ridicule
her and essentially discredit,
or tried to discredit,
the feelings
people had about the experience,
but Fife Symington himself
ultimately came out
and made a comment.
I think he was regretful
for what he had done.
Let's take a look.
It's just a little clip.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-It was all too symmetrical.
You can't control
flares that way.
There's just no way
they were flares.
It was so
technologically advanced
that it was a thrilling
feeling to see it.
The lights were
really brilliant,
and it was just fascinating.
I mean, it was enormous.
It just felt otherworldly.
You know, in your gut, you
could tell it was otherworldly.
It has never been
identified to this day.
And I suspect that unless the
Defense Department proves us
otherwise, that it
was probably some form
of an alien spacecraft.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>REGINA: So.
>>KITEI: Yeah.
It's very interesting how
this whole thing played out.
And when you look at the puzzle
pieces fitting together--
>>REGINA: That's what's
so beautiful about it.
It's all there and you
documented all of this.
>>KITEI: I tried.
>>REGINA: But this
doesn't normally happen.
And we're talking about
UFO sightings almost
on a daily basis planetarily.
There are always
sightings happening.
>>KITEI: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: But I wanted
to-- there's another one,
I just love the work
of Martyn Stubbs.
Now, Martyn Stubbs,
and you have some
of his video in
the documentary, he
is the one that did the
video called "The Secret NASA
Transmissions."
And what happened was Martyn
was the manager, as I recall,
I think in Vancouver, of
a public access television
station and for some reason,
when he was running his feeds,
he somehow hooked
into the frequency
of NASA's transmissions
because everything going on
up in those space capsules
are being recorded.
Everything's being recorded.
>>KITEI: Yes.
>>REGINA: He was getting the
live feed and broadcasting it.
And normally, humans
don't see that.
The public never
sees the live feed.
No.
The public sees the
cleansed feed, and only
tiny little portions.
These orbs darting all about.
Obviously, something
intelligent going on out there.
>>KITEI: Well, there's been a
number of videos that have been
captured serendipitously
also that show--
there's one that shows three
orbs coming together in a V
formation exactly
like my video--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KITEI: -from March 13, 1997.
And as in this one
that shows something
very similar to
the Dropa Stones.
I examined the most credible
cases that I could find,
and one of them was the
story of these Dropa Stones
that were actually found
in China that were--
>>REGINA: Explain Dropa Stones.
>>KITEI: -like records.
When they tried
to translate them,
it seemed to be from some
kind of an alien intelligence.
So there was so
much to the story.
And I actually ended up
with a 750 page journal
seven years later
and decided that I,
in good conscience being an
educator for 35 years, how
could I stick it in a drawer;
condensed the best of what
I had discovered looking for a
logical explanation to this day
into the first
edition of the book.
And the third edition
just came out last year
that has a new chapter on what's
happened since I came forward
in 2004.
>>REGINA: Well, can
we talk about that?
>>KITEI: Surely.
>>REGINA: Let's go ahead
and talk about that.
>>KITEI: There's other
sightings, including
similar sightings in
Illinois and in Texas,
as well as Symington
coming forward right
after the 10th anniversary,
which was very interesting.
Symington did come forward
to say that he actually saw--
>>REGINA: Right, as we
just saw a bit ago, yeah.
>>KITEI: -that he actually
saw the phenomenon
and that it was
otherworldly, which you would
you hear over and over again.
And there is so
much more I'm also
sharing for the first
time, data that I never
thought that I would
share, including--
>>REGINA: Which?
>>KITEI: Actually, a study
that was done by Navy Optical
Physicist, Dr. Bruce Maccabee,
way back in '98 of my close
sighting photographs that I
have not shared for over a dozen
years, but--
>>REGINA: Why didn't
you share them?
>>KITEI: Because
it was so bizarre.
He actually found and
discovered in my photographs,
even though my husband and I
felt that the close sighting
was only two three,
four minutes tops,
the data speaks differently.
From the first picture to
the last picture, and all
you need to do is
look at the data
and I have it posted on the
phoenixlights.net photo page,
there are many more lights
in the first picture
in the skyline that are
not on in the last picture.
And he analyzes really,
really meticulously to show
the groups of lights that
were on in the first picture
and off in the last and had
me do a little experiment.
To go out, try to
stand in the same spot
that I was standing in '95, take
the skyline pictures one night
every hour, the next
night every half hour.
And I actually took
it every 15 minutes
to show when these groups
of lights would go out.
Well, my husband called
me out of the bath.
I usually take a bath between
7:00 and 8:00 in the evening,
so let's be conservative
and say the starting point
is 8 o'clock.
Well, the groups of lights
start going out at 9:00,
and the last picture
is indicative of 10:30,
11 o'clock.
>>REGINA: So we're talking
about missing time.
>>KITEI: Well, at
the time, I had
no idea what he was
even getting at.
And he asked me if he
could present the case
at the upcoming 1999 MUFON,
Mutual UFO Network, symposium
in Washington DC.
I said as long as you
keep my name out of it.
This is your baby.
I would have never
ever noticed this data.
But he was so meticulous in
his investigation of the data.
And at the time,
he presented it as
the first photographic evidence,
authenticated photographic
evidence, ever of missing time.
Now, I could not wrap
my head around this.
There's much more to the
story, I have to say,
that is shared in the
book and the website.
But what was interesting is the
reason I'm sharing it now is,
again, I do not believe
in coincidence any longer.
If I have this data,
maybe it's important.
Maybe it's important,
number one.
Number two, quantum physics
and quantum mechanics
is just starting to catch up.
We're quite primitive in
our science at this point.
And they're now postulating
string theory, bubble theory,
that there may be 10 or 11
different dimensions out there.
Well, if that's the case, if
there's other times and spaces
along with ours,
then why is it such a
leap that there could
be other intelligences
in those other times and
spaces that we get glimpses
of if we're open to
them or inviting it.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
I mean to me, it's just
pure logic, of course.
>>KITEI: So that's why
I'm sharing it now.
And I'm actually working on
a curriculum for young people
getting back to my passion--
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>KITEI: I call
it Out Of The Box.
Yes.
>>REGINA: I love that.
>>KITEI: For fall.
Fifth through 12th graders
on the whole unexplained
phenomenon topic.
They thirst for this knowledge.
There is nothing, nothing in
our classrooms, especially
our history books--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>KITEI: -concerning this and
it's about time that there was.
>>REGINA: Well, absolutely.
And not only that,
there's a lot of evidence
that a lot of the
young people that
are coming onto the
planet at this time
are hard-wired to accept
these kinds of things.
They are very
comfortable, have expanded
IQ over what we've seen
prior to this period of time,
are highly intuitive
individuals.
So for them to resonate on
a higher, more refined level
with this information, I totally
support what you're doing.
I think that's just fabulous
that you're now putting it out
there in an arena that really,
because of the previous work
you've done, you've got to
erase the giggle factor from it.
It's really not
part of it anymore.
And to let these kids start
exploring in their own right.
>>KITEI: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Now, one thing
you were talking about
a moment ago was the
multi-dimensionality.
And yes, I mean, I think it's
11 dimensions that they've
been able to identify up to
this point, something like that.
A lot of these sightings
that take place, just
like you missed
a period of time.
There was a phase shift in
the time space continuum,
it appears, that felt like
two to four minutes to you.
And so now that this
has been documented,
you're more
comfortable with that.
The other thing is
the notion of people
being able to see into
other dimensional fields.
And from that-- if I may
share something of my own.
>>KITEI: Absolutely.
Please.
>>REGINA: I had an experience
years ago as a journalist.
I was looking to
do a documentary
for PBS called "UFOs,
Hard Evidence."
Now, I had attended the
Disclosure Project in DC,
I was aware of Phoenix Lights.
I had done quite a bit
of study on this myself.
And as part of my research,
I went out in the field
with Steven Greer's group.
And, you know, you go out
and you watch the night sky.
But before that,
everybody gathers around
and, not a campfire because
there's no light, right?
Normally on a very dark
evening, you gather around
and you take a moment to see
what comes up intuitively.
And oftentimes, you're looking
beyond the time space continuum
into the future.
And I was doing that and
things were popping up
on schedule and all, but
one of the things that most
got me was I kept
looking at-- each night,
I kept seeing this elliptical
blue spacecraft that
was sitting on a flat rock
at the edge of some crags.
And I said, well, I
just saw it again.
I must be making it up.
It's not happened, so it
must not be happening.
But the epilogue is the second
to the last day we went out
to the crags in Joshua Tree,
and somebody had a digital cam
and was taking photos.
The next day when I came
in, everyone was abuzz.
They were around a
television screen.
Sure enough, their
image, which was--
they thought they had just
taken pictures of rocks,
there was the elliptical
blue spacecraft
sitting on the flat rock right
at the edge of the crags,
as I had seen the day
before, the day before
and the day before.
So whether I was
being shown the future
or whether I was simply dialing
into whatever was already
there, the point was in
subsequent experiences,
they were all over the place.
>>KITEI: Mm-hm.
And more and more
people-- that's
why the internet now is so
glorious and social networking
because before, as you said,
there could be ridicule,
blowing it off, ignoring
the data, whatever.
It can't be ignored any longer.
There're too many
people worldwide
who are becoming aware
that something is going on
out of our own reality,
outside our own reality,
and even alien to
our own reality
that needs to be addressed.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KITEI: And they're
capturing these phenomenon.
Most things can be
explained, but some cannot.
The small percentages that
cannot needs to be addressed
at this point.
>>REGINA: And we have to
begin trusting each other.
I mean, this is the point
of this conversation,
why I wanted to have
you on this show,
is because we need to start
not only listening to ourselves
and trusting in our
own perceptions.
Just like that.
That could have seemed
really wacky to me
to be seeing this thing and
not have any validation for it.
But sure enough,
there it was on film.
It was validated, so it
all ended really nicely.
The other things
that I saw behind us
were never captured
on film, but does that
mean they didn't exist?
I got to a point
finally over the years
where I decided I'm trusting
my own perceptions first,
everything else, including
scientific data, comes second.
And if we can all feel
comfortable enough
to trust ourselves and share
that with other people,
we're going to start seeing
really similar themes,
just like the Phoenix
Lights, which is so beautiful
it allowed the
possibility for that,
for so many people to
have a common experience.
We're going to see
that in many ways
when people begin to speak up.
>>KITEI: Absolutely.
That's what's so important.
The more credible people
that do come forward.
And certainly, having
a 35 millimeter camera
is the best way--
>>REGINA: You bet.
>>KITEI: -to analyze
these things.
I couldn't be here
if I didn't have
that data to show
the hard evidence.
And what you'll hear from
hard-line skeptics or debunkers
who try to discredit the
messenger so people won't
listen to the message,
look at the data.
>>REGINA: Look at the data.
>>KITEI: It speaks for itself.
>>REGINA: That's right.
So you've got data, you
have personal experience,
you have feelings.
I want to ask you one thing.
We only have a couple
minutes left here.
Do you feel that
there was, whether you
want to call it on a
soul level or whatnot,
that there was a
reason for all of this?
I mean, there had to have been.
Were you somehow
chosen on some level
to be the one to
carry it forward?
Do you feel-- what do you feel?
I mean, just don't be shy, what
do you feel this was all about?
>>KITEI: Firstly, I
think that everyone
is chosen to live a life
on this beautiful planet.
>>REGINA: Yes, indeed.
>>KITEI: And hopefully,
as people become awakened,
they appreciate how
lucky we are to have
the experience on this
beautiful, wonderful planet.
But it's also our own choice of
what we do with an experience
and what we do with
what comes before us.
And it was my choice to
actually delve into this.
I could have very
easily blown it off.
My husband did.
He knows we saw something
unusual and not of our world.
But I chose maybe from my past
experience and my dear death
experience as a child,
just having the foundation
laid at that point.
Because it's a very interesting
story in and of itself that
I share now in the book,
or the scientist in me.
And I have really tried to
be as scientific as possible
to have these phenomenon
explained to me.
And to this day, no one can.
And having a whole new
world that I never knew
existed 15 years
ago opened up to me
and feeling compelled
to share it.
And if people-- and as I
mentioned, people that do
have experiences, unexplained
phenomenon experiences,
and it's not just
aerial phenomena,
wakes us up not only to the
spiritual beings we are,
but the potential, the
positive potential.
We have so much more potential
than we're being told--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>KITEI: -to make this
world a better world.
>>REGINA: And whether
you were chosen
or whether you simply
made the choice
doesn't make a difference.
>>KITEI: It does not.
In the end--
>>KITEI: We all choose what
to do with our own life--
>>REGINA: And I thank you
for making that choice--
>>KITEI: -and what
comes before us.
>>REGINA: -on behalf of
everybody watching this.
>>KITEI: Thank you.
>>REGINA: That you have made
it comfortable for more people
to explore this subject than
has ever been the case before.
>>KITEI: I hope so.
I hope so.
>>REGINA: So, thank you.
>>KITEI: Keep looking up.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Thank you, again.
To find out more
about this topic,
you can pick up a
copy of the video
by going to Lynne's website
at pheonixlights.net.
Because it was so
well researched,
it's a really good
way to start dialogue
around a topic that inevitably
has to be addressed.
Until next time, thanks
for joining us at Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]